#################################################################
On June 02, 2022, we got a new version of the GFDL tracker (gettrk.fd)
from Tim Marchok (NOAA/GFDL).

Here are the description of changes from Tim's email:

New radii diagnosis scheme:  
There were two concerns with the radii scheme from the old tracker.  First,
outlier values were being included.  Second... and related... we needed
assurance that values that were being diagnosed could be considered part of the
mean circulation of the TC.  The previous version of the tracker assessed the
wind values at individual points.  The updated scheme computes wind values in
radial bins, where these bins have a distance interval, dr, of 3 km.  Wind
values are computed in each quadrant at an azimuthal increment of 1 degree,
thereby giving 90 wind values in each bin.  The wind value assigned to each
radial bin is the one associated with the 95th percentile value in that bin,
helping to ensure that if an R34 value is diagnosed at a given radius, there is
likely greater areal coverage of winds at that radius exceeding 34 kts.  Once
an R34 value is diagnosed initially, it must pass a check to ensure that it can
be considered part of the mean circulation.  Using the Vmax and axisymmetric
Rmax diagnosed by the tracker at this lead time for this storm, the Holland
wind profile tangential wind at this radius is computed, and the mean cyclonic
tangential wind in this radial bin (and several more radial bins radially
inward) must be at least 50% of the Holland wind profile value at this radius.
If it's not, then the search for R34 continues radially inward.

Axisymmetric RMW:
The old tracker diagnoses RMW at the point where the Vmax was detected.  While
this is still done and reported in the same location in the output atcf file,
an additional algorithm is included to evaluate the axisymmetric RMW using
computation in radial bins.  This axisymmetric RMW value is printed out at the
end of each atcf record, with the distance and the wind values being printed
out after a string, "ARMW".

Vertical Shear:
This is optional and its computation is controlled by "shearflag" in the
namelist.  This computes 850-200 mb vertical shear using the same exact
algorithm as in SHIPS, included the same vortex removal scheme.  This shear
value is printed out at the end of each atcf record, with the direction and
magnitude values printed out after a string, "SHR82".

Area-averaged SST:
This is optional and its computation is controlled by "sstflag" in the
namelist.  This computes the area-averaged SST, using the tracker's Barnes
analysis, centered on the TC fix at the current lead time.  This SST value is
printed out at the end of each atcf record after a string, "SST".

Genesis diagnostics:
These are optional and their computation is controlled by "genflag" in the
namelist.  Their values are *not* written out to the standard atcf file, rather
they are written to two other modified atcf files in units 66 and 68.  All of
these contain the Barnes analysis-averaged value of each metric, centered on
the TC for each lead time.
  850 mb convergence
  850 mb moisture convergence
  Mean RH in the 800-600 mb layer
  Mean RH in the 1000-925 mb layer
  500 mb omega

#################################################################
On September 04, 2019, we got a new version of the GFDL tracker (gettrk.fd)
from Tim Marchok (NOAA/GFDL).

+ 19-09-03  Marchok   Made a change to subroutine getgridinfo to
                      allow a particular longitude specification to
                      be okay.  Previously, if the grid max west lon
                      was > 0 and the grid max east long was also > 0,
                      but if glonmin > glonmax (for example, a grid
                      that spans across the GM going from 265E to 5E),
                      the code was written to assume the user had
                      coded the grid specification incorrectly.  This
                      condition is now allowed.

#################################################################
On May 29, 2019, we got a new version of the GFDL tracker (gettrk.fd) from Tim
Marchok (NOAA/GFDL).

Here are some information from Tim's email:

There are a lot of changes with this version, and they will (slightly) affect
the answers. It appears that there is only one change needed to the previous
input namelist for the new version of the tracker. In the namelist group
"&trackerinfo", there is a variable that is added, which is "max_mslp_850". In
the previous version of the tracker, that variable was likely hard-wired into
the source code. The variable sets the maximum allowable distance (in km)
between a found mslp center and 850zeta center.  I changed this so that it can
be set in the namelist, e.g.:

&trackerinfo
.  .  .
trkrinfo%max_mslp_850=400.0
.  .  .

Meanwhile, in this latest version, Tim fixed the increasing memory usage issue
when working with grib2 format files. Specifically, in the tracker, call the
gf_free routine to free up memory that was allocated when pointers were
declared for some of the required arrays for g2lib. This call to gf_free is an
extra step that needs to be taken after the call to the g2lib routine getgb2.

Here are some more details regarding the changes since the last version of the
tracker used in operational HWRF.

+ 17-08-31  Marchok   Added a logical bitmap capability for NetCDF
                      files to prevent the accessing of missing data.
                      Also modified the code to permit more accurate
                      reporting of the grid point value of the
                      minimum SLP for reporting to the atcfunix file.
                      Finally, fixed a bug (reported by JTWC) whereby
                      radii were being reported for thresholds that
                      were in exceedance of the tracker-diagnosed
                      Vmax (e.g., 34-kt radii for a storm with
                      Vmax = 25 kts).

+ Only do the check for 50- and 64-kt radii the first time through
  the getradii routine.  The 34-kt radii may be adjusted on
  subsequent calls.

+ Adjusted code to allow for forward tracking for NetCDF data files
  that do not have hour0 data in them.

+ Code updated to include cyclone phase space analysis for 00h.
  Previously this was not done since storm motion direction is
  needed for Parameter B.  This is now included for forward
  tracking cases (i.e., cases in which we have TC Vitals), and
  we use the storm motion as reported from the TC Vitals.  Of
  course, the observed motion from TC Vitals may not exactly
  match the model forecast motion, but for 00h it will be close
  enough that it will allow us to get the CPS diagnostics.  This
  was a request from Chris Velden for use with the latest version
  of AODT.  For genesis cases (trkrtype = midlat or tcgen), CPS
  diagnostics are still not performed at the first detection lead time.

+ In subroutine get_sfc_center, replaced double-weighting for surface
  wind circulation fix with single weighting, as results of testing
  did not support the use of double weighting.

+ Modified code in subroutine getvrvt to properly handle the
  computation of radial and tangential winds when a storm is near
  the Greenwich meridian.

+ Made significant changes to subroutine get_next_ges to fix issues for
  cases that are near or crossing the Greenwich meridian.

+ Made changes to subroutine get_max_wind to allow for checking of the
  max wind at points closer to the border of a regional grid.
  Previously, the last few points were not sampled in order to
  avoid numerical issues with sampling points at the boundary.  This
  change was added in response to a request from HRD for use with a
  regional version of fv3 (hfvgfs).

+ Made a substantial change to the algorithm that returns the value of
  the wind circulation in subroutine get_wind_circulation.  Previously,
  a difference was computed between the radially-integrated wind
  circulation and the wind magnitude at the center of the storm.  This
  was flawed.  Now, just the value of the radially-integrated wind
  circulation is used, and the results are robust and comparable to
  those of using relative vorticity.

+ Bug fix in subroutine getcorr related to the correlation residuals.

#################################################################
This is a README file for the gettrk update given to Zhan on 
March 16, 2017.

- Written by Tim Marchok
#################################################################

-----------------------------------------------
1. What's included in the directories on Luna?
-----------------------------------------------

  a. Location of new source and WCOSS-Cray makefile:
     Luna: /gpfs/hps/emc/hwrf/noscrub/Timothy.Marchok/save/trak/para/for_zhan_20170316/sorc/

  b. Location of new input namelist file:
     Luna: /gpfs/hps/emc/hwrf/noscrub/Timothy.Marchok/save/trak/para/for_zhan_20170316/namelist_examples
     Note that in this directory are two input namelist files.  The first one, 
     input.hw01.2016082712, is what you would use for your current, operational 
     version of hwrf_unified_tracker.  The second one, input.hw02.2016082712, is
     an example of what you will need to use with the new tracker.

  c. Location of verification output files for HWRF FY17 testing:
     Luna: /gpfs/hps/emc/hwrf/noscrub/Timothy.Marchok/save/trak/para/for_zhan_20170316/verif
     Verifications are included for track (tcard*out) and intensity (icard*out) 
     for all non-invest cases that Bin Liu had on HPSS in his H217B and C217B 
     directories on HPSS.  If your version of the model changed in between 
     H217B and C217B, it makes no difference for these results, as we are only
     concerned about analyzing differences among different versions of the 
     tracker within the same cases.  Note that "HW01" is current version of the
     hwrf_unified_tracker that I pulled out of the /nwprod directory on 
     WCOSS/Cray, and "HW02" is the new version of the tracker with all new 
     variables included.

  d. Location of this README file:
     Luna: /gpfs/hps/emc/hwrf/noscrub/Timothy.Marchok/save/trak/para/for_zhan_20170316/README.20170316

-----------------------------------------------
2. Major changes in new (20170316) tracker
-----------------------------------------------

  a. Replaced the routine which tracks the wind minimum at the center of 
     a storm, as that routine proved troublesome with very hi-res grids 
     (0.02-deg) from HWRF for very small storms.  This has been replaced 
     with a routine that looks for "wind circulation difference", 
     whereby the center for this parm is located at the spot where the 
     tangential wind circulation minus the wind magnitude at the 
     candidate center position is maximized.  

  b. Added the ability to read in NetCDF files.  As with GRIB1 or GRIB2
     data, the NetCDF data must be on a lat/lon grid.

  c. Added the tracking of thickness (200-850 mb and 500-850 mb) as 
     additional tracked parms.

  d. Added backup (secondary) checks for mslp gradient and v850 wind
     thresholds.  If a fix can't be made for either mslp or v850 wind
     circulation, then these checks aren't performed... but they are 
     really needed for tracking continuity decisions.  So we've changed
     this so that the checks are still done, but centered around the 
     mean fixlat and fixlon positions.

  e. The user can much more easily decide which parameters to track,
     as there are now flags for these which are individually set in 
     the input namelist file.  Note also that for models which 
     output both PRMSL and MSLET (2 different mslp variables, 
     differing by sea-level reduction methods), the user can also 
     specify in the namelist which one to use.

  f. The tcvitals file is no longer soft-linked.  It *MUST* be 
     either renamed to a file called, specifically, 
     "tcvit_rsmc_storms.txt" (or you can link your tcvitals file
     to that specific name).  This was done to avoid some unit
     number conflicts and also to ensure more continuous running 
     of the tracker in genesis cases.  Similarly, the genesis
     vitals file is no longer just soft-linked... it must be 
     renamed to a file called "tcvit_genesis_storms.txt".  

  g. Beta: For genesis cases, we've added in an option (declared
     in the input namelist file) whereby the user can indicate 
     whether or not to use a land-sea mask so that a new low for
     tcgen cases cannot be identified over land.  Obviously, to 
     use this, the input data file must have a land-sea mask that
     is on the same grid as the other input data variables.

-----------------------------------------------
3. Minor changes in new (20170316) tracker
-----------------------------------------------

  a. A check is done for the mslp values to determine their scale.
     Most operational centers use Pa, however the NetCDF files from
     FV3 use hPa, and if that different scale is not accounted for,
     it makes the closed-contour check fail and also messes up the
     output of mslp in the atcf file.

  b. A change was made to fix a hole in the logic for genesis runs.
     Previously, if a fix was not made for mslp, then the isastorm(1) 
     flag would not be 'Y', and so the call to check_closed_contour in
     the following IF statement would not be made, and that would 
     prevent the search mask from getting updated for this particular 
     storm, allowing the same storm to be detected when the scan for new
     storms takes place at this lead time (i.e., after all previously-
     known storms from the last lead time have been tracked).  As a fix, 
     if that isastorm(1) flag is not 'Y', then we call a new subroutine 
     (mask_based_on_wind_circ) which updates the mask based on the 
     circulation at 850 mb.

  c. Changed the algorithms that compute various near-surface wind 
     diagnostics such that they are not computed just along 45-degree
     azimuths, but rather are computed using quadrant average winds.
     NOTE: This has nothing to do with the standard diagnostics for
     computing 34-, 50- and 64-kt wind radii... instead, it refers to
     the computation of other wind diagnostics.

  d. Added a routine, advect_tcvitals_from_hour0, that will 
     calculate a guess position for the next time for the case of 
     NetCDF in which the hour0 data are not included (this is 
     currently the case with FV3 NetCDF data).  This allows us to 
     effectively start tracking at the first forecast hour, in the
     absence of hour0 data.

  e. Cleaned up the allocation and deallocation of various 
     allocatable arrays so that none are left allocated when they
     shouldn't be.

  f. The center fixes for v850, v700 and vsfc are now used in 
     computing the standard deviation of the center positions, since
     we are using wind circulation.  Previously they were not since
     the old version just used the minimum in the wind speed, where
     the search was confined to a very short radius surrounding the 
     guess position.

-----------------------------------------------
4. Input changes needed for new (20170316) tracker
-----------------------------------------------

  a. 200 mb GP Height needs to be added to the list of variables 
     included in the hwrftrk files.

  b. The cut-out domain for the hwrftrk files needs to be expanded
     from 20x20 to 25x25 degrees to take advantage of the recent 
     updates to the wind radii determination routines.

  c. The input namelist file for gettrk has been updated.  Please see
     1(b) above regarding the differences in the new input namelist 
     files.
